# Battleship-Web-Game

This online game is a 2D game based on the board game “Battleship”, except not in the traditional sense. This adaptation is based on the electronic version of the game, where the board is a 14x10 grid, rather than the standard 10x10, and there are many different abilities that each surviving ship equips the player with. These different abilities can be enabled or disabled before starting a game, so the player can choose to have a more standard experience or play with more advanced features. Each ship and their abilities are as follows:
-	Aircraft Carrier (5 spaces): Comes with two “attack squadrons” that come with enough missiles for one attack. The player can use these to scout enemy territory and, if still equipped with missiles, fire upon any ships sighted. The player can choose to have the attack squadrons scout in an “X” pattern or a “+” pattern, both of which fit into a 3x3 space. These attack squadrons start on the aircraft carrier and, if the space they begin on is destroyed by the opponent before they are deployed into battle, they will be destroyed as well. The only way for a player to destroy attack squadrons once they have been used is with the “Anti-Aircraft Missiles” provided by the Destroyer. Attack Squadrons become their own entities once they have been used for the first time.
-	Battleship (4 spaces): Comes equipped with a “Tomahawk Missile”, a once per game attack that destroys any parts of enemy ships in a 3x3 area. The player using this ability selects the center of this 3x3 as the target.
-	Light Missile Cruiser (3 spaces): Comes equipped with two “Harpoon Missiles”, which the player can launch in either a 3x1 (horizontal) pattern or a 1x3 (vertical) pattern. When fired, the missile will destroy any part of enemy ships within the chosen pattern. The player using this ability selects the center of the pattern as the target.
-	Fast Attack Submarine (3 spaces): Comes equipped with two “torpedoes” which can sweep across enemy territory until contacting an enemy ship. The player using this ability chooses whether to send the torpedo vertically or horizontally, then chooses which side to send it from, choosing between the top and bottom or right and left, respectively. Finally, the player chooses which column or row they want to unleash the torpedo on. Once these decisions are made, the torpedo will fire from the specified location in the specified direction and will travel that path until it hits and destroys part of an enemy ship. If it does not hit an enemy ship, this will be communicated to the player.
-	Destroyer (2 spaces): Comes equipped with “Anti-Aircraft Missiles” which serve as a player’s main defense against enemy attack squadrons. The player using this ability must pinpoint exactly where an enemy aircraft is positioned and select that as the target for this ability, since it can only fire upon one space at a time. This ability has no use outside of destroying enemy aircraft, which does not contribute to the goal of destroying the enemy’s fleet of ships. This ability can be used any number of times, as long as the player’s Destroyer ship has not been sunk.
